
# Propositional Linear Logic in Coq

We formalize in Coq different sequent calculi for linear logic (LL) and we prove them to be equivalent. We also prove some meta-theorems, including cut-elimination and the completeness of the focused system. 

This package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of GNU Lesser General Public License (see the COPYING file). 

Author  <a href="mailto: bruno_xavier86@yahoo.com.br">Bruno Xavier</a>
and <a href="mailto:carlos.olarte@gmail.com"> Carlos Olarte</a>


## Getting Started

The project was tested in Coq 8.6. No extra library is needed for compilation. 

### Building 

Typing "make" should suffice to compile the project:

```
make
```

The project documentation can be generated by

```
make html
```


## Structure of the project / proofs

We briefly describe the content (theorems and definitions) of the .v files. The documentation of the library offers more detailed explanations. 


### LL/Atoms
Atomic propositions in LL are represented by the type 
```
var
```
. We assume that equality on such atomic propositions is decidable. 

### LL/Syntax
This file defines the syntax of linear logic and its notation.  

### LL/Multisets
Representation of (polymorphic) multisets and some needed results.

### LL/MultisetLL
Instance of Multisets for LL formulas.

### LL/SequentCalculi
We formalize different sequent calculi for Classical Linear Logic: two sided, one sided and dyadic systems. Some systems make explicit the measures (e.g., height of derivation) needed for the cut-elimination proof. 


### LL/MetaTheory/StrongInduction
Most of the proofs require the strong induction principle. This file defines such principle. 

### LL/MetaTheory/StructuralRules
We prove that, for all systems, multiset-equivalent contexts prove the same theorems (exchange rule). We also prove that the classical context (in dyadic systems) admits the usual weakening and contraction rules (preserving the height of the derivation). 

### LL/MetaTheory/Tactics
Some tactics to automatize part of the proofs. 

### LL/MetaTheory/CutCases
In this file we prove the cases for the elimination of the rule CUT. Each lemma corresponds to one of the connectives (and its dual). 

### LL/MetaTheory/CCutCases
In this file we prove the cases for the elimination of the rule CCUT below. 

```
|--[G]; D1, !F  |-- [G, F]; D2
----------------------------- CCUT
|-- [G];D1,D2
```

 Each lemma corresponds to one of the connectives (and its dual). 

### LL/MetaTheory/CutElimination
The proof of the cut-elimination theorem.

### LL/Focusing/TriSystem
This file specifies Andreoli's triadic system. Sequents are of the shape
```
|-F- B ; M ; X
```

where

 - B is the classical context
 - M contains only positive formulas
 - X is an "arrow" that can be:
  - UP L, where L is a list of formulas (negative phase )
  - DW F, where F is a formula (positive phase)

  
### LL/Focusing/BDefinitions
Definitions for the triadic system (e.g., polarity of formulas)

### LL/Focusing/Soundness
Proof of soundness of the focused system

### LL/Focusing/InvCopy , InvTensor, InvPlus
Invertibility lemmas (positive connectives)

### LL/Focusing/StructuralRulesTriSystem
Invertibility lemmas (negative connectives)

### LL/Focusing/Completeness
Proof of Completeness

### example/
A simple example using the triadic and the dyadic systems. 

